"There is no end to the love given
by the one who embraces me."
"My most beloved has come..
There is endless light,
there is no end to it."
"There is no end to the love given
by the one who embraces me."
"My most beloved has come."
"There is endless light,
there is no end to it."
"He has given us the supreme secret."
"He has given us
fragrance in the flowers."
"He has swung us on delightful swings."
There is no end to his love."
"There is music in every step of the way."
"So many colours around
us to enchant us forever."
"There is no end to His favours."
"So many wonderful
stars touch our dreams."
"He has bestowed endless springs on us."
"He has given us limitless joy.
There is no end to His gifts."
"He has breathed life to
the entire earth since ages."
"Several sacred places
are put up to thank..
Him for his kindness."
"There is no end to His bounty."
"My companion has garlanded
me with bridal flowers."
"I'm beheld that my
heart is filled with love."
"There is no end to His gifts."
"There is no end to the love given
by the one who embraces me."
"My most beloved has come.."
"there is endless light,
there is no end to it."
Kali, people say you can't see.
That is true. I'm blind since birth.
Not at all. You see everything.
We can't see a thing.
Hey, give me, quick!
What do I give you?
Roasted lentils. Do you've it?
Suddenly master wants to eat
fish-head curry with lentils.
Here it is, taste some.
How can I eat? I don't have teeth.
I can swallow it.
Oh it's you?
Why are you making such a sad face?
It's daylight robbery.
- Meaning?
I'm over 55 years of age.
Can't work anymore.
Seems, it's the rule.
- Rule?
What will you eat? Fresh air.
- Fresh air?
Do you remember? When you had a job?
How you showed off!
I warned you, I said,
they won't employ you forever.
I've a great job!
When I'm gone for good only
then will I lose it. - Don't say that.
Here are your lentils.
- Come and get it.
Would you like a puff?
- No, I'm in hurry. Very much in a hurry.
Throw him out, I say,
throw the old servant out.
Why? He does everything.
Besides, he also looks after Sonny.
He can't manage anymore.
The other day he took him
for a stroll and I heard..
A cow came and pushed him!
He is old now.
How can he take care of him?
Finally, it was our
local cowherd who came..
And caught the cow.
You don't say!
I've to look for somebody else.
How long does it take to get lentils?
Here you are, madam, I've got the lentils.
Kali.
- Yes, sir.
Look out for the personnel.
- Why sir?
You're old now.
You can't manage this alone.
What did you say, sir?
What Kali can still do..
Kali!
- Yes, ma'am.
What did you bring from the store?
Roasted lentils.
It's sugar.
- Sugar?
Kali.
- Yes, sir.
I insist that you look for another worker.
This is not my fault, sir.
This is Sridhar's doing.
Sridhar..
Here's it. You gave me sugar!
You're old, Kali.
That I am.
You know, Hari,
I was boasting at that time. - Why?
I think I've to retire now.
Does that have anything in it?
- Yes.
Give me a puff.
Sister, sister!
- What is it?
I wanted to hit a sparrow,
the stone landed on dad's head!
What?
Charan, Charan! Charan!
Charan!
Where did he go?
Here he is, father.
Have a look, someone hit me on my head.
He is wearing a printed loin cloth.
Look over there.
I'll have a look, father.
- Go, have a look.
Have a look, indeed!
Where will you look for him?
Do you've to look for him?
- Yes, father.
Where will you search? In that haystack?
- Yes.
Finally, where will you find him?
- Where?
Here!
Here you are, father.
Oh! I can't chase him around.
- Where did you get hurt, father?
It's okay. I told her,
there is no need to fast for me.
She didn't listen. What was the use?
I'm still alive and she is in heaven!
Whom are you talking about, father?
- Who else?
Your mom! Who will take care of the lad?
I'll look after him, father.
Yes, you will. You will.
Bindu, it's just as well
that she is no more. Very good.
She would not be able to bear it.
You got widowed soon after marriage..
Bindu, from now onward,
you're not only his sister..
You're everything to him.
You'll bring him up.
I will. I will, father.
And me? People have already
started calling me old Kali.
Who said you're old? I curse them.
You shouldn't say that.
They're our masters.
Our keepers.
Hasn't that servant come?
Why? Have you decided to keep him?
No, I asked him to look for someone.
You really can't rely on that old Kali.
I know that, ma'am.
So, I've brought you a servant.
Will you work in our house?
Yes. That is what father says.
What can you do?
I can run on one foot. I can play kabaddi.
I can aim the slingshot really accurately.
I can climb this tree. Can you?
- No.
Wait, see.
Charan, hey Charan!
Where has he gone?
Such a small boy!
Daddy, will he work in our house?
That'll be great, father.
He knows everything.
He can play kabaddi,
hit the slingshot well and he can..
Run on one foot.
Please show daddy once.
Mom, please let him stay here.
Very well, dear, very well.
Let's go out.
Kali, let him learn how to work,
after that..
I know, ma'am.
You want to discuss the wages, right?
You pay me, why does he need to be paid?
Kalicharan can't indulge
in daylight robbery.
Father has become old
so the boy is helping him out.
Let him learn the work
then you can pay him.
Daddy!
Daddy, he is no good.
- Why?
He knows all the games
but he isn't playing with me.
What is your name?
I was born after prayers to Goddess Kali.
So my name is Kalicharan.
I had gone with his mom to Brindaban.
He was born there.
So I named him Raicharan.
Raicharan,
now why won't you play with him?
That is your work.
Father has told me that
servants shouldn't play.
A servant should serve his master.
But when the master orders you to play,
you must obey.
You can't disobey the master!
What do you say, Kalicharan?
Service is our duty.
I order you to run on one foot.
- Okay.
Here.
- No.
It's your master's order, drink up!
- Okay.
Now he has forgotten me too!
Earlier he used to just roam
around and check on me several times.
Now his sister is a stranger!
You think he works over there?
- Well then?
He only plays kabaddi
and runs on one foot with..
The young master.
I see! Then he is not
a master but a playmate!
In a way, yes.
Where is he?
Let him be wherever he is.
He must be hiding somewhere
and playing pranks!
Where is he? Charan!
Charan!
Why are you lying down?
No, it's nothing.
- It's nothing?
Let me have a look.
Oh dear, you're burning with fever!
Keep lying down.
No point eating today.
Father, Charan is burning with fever!
But natural!
The young master wanted to see..
So all day he rode the bullock
in the neighboring village.
Give me some rice.
I spoke to Satish, the tutor.
Anu will go to school from tomorrow.
Raicharan will deliver
his lunch at school.
Satish is a very strict teacher.
Any prank and he'll get beaten.
You know, dad,
today Charan rode that stubborn bull of..
Ours at our old house.
As soon as the bullock
charged with his horns..
Charan took hold of
his horns and sat on his back.
If Raicharan continues working here,..
He'll be the third generation
of that family working here.
Did Kalicharan's father work here too?
- Yes.
See, the relationship with
retainers like him is not..
Exactly like the worker-employer
relationship in an office.
They begin in a small way.
Gradually, they win over everything.
Over the time they develop so much
that it is hard to tell who is bigger.
The master or the disciple.
Father, Charan doesn't
have fever this morning.
Let him rest today.
Very well, I agree.
Have this barley. Where did he go?
Charan!
Father! Father, I'm absolutely fine now.
I beg of you, please let me go with you.
Charan, Charan! Get into bed at once!
Father..
Go and lie down quietly.
No running around today, okay?
Come and have this barley.
Wait.
'One night I dreamt,
someone said, look at me, look at me.'
'I stared and saw the big thief.
I go by leisurely to Kolkata.'
'The houses there were
erect and made of bricks.'
'There are windows and doors too.'
'The roads twist and turn like snakes.'
'The trams storm on those
with a thud and a thwack!'
'The shops and stores
are buzzing with life.'
'The top of the house beats its head.'
'The Howrah bridge is like a crown.'
'Life hums behind it up and down.'
'People are walking everywhere in droves.'
'Under their feet lies
the earth vanquished.'
'Our school speeds ahead at a brisk pace.'
'The math book tries to join in the race.'
'The maps adorn the walls noisily.'
The basic duties in life.
Supreme devotion to parents.
Loyalty of subjects to their king..
The devotion that
Hanuman had toward Rama..
Equals to the devotion
that Rabindranath had towards..
Our ancient heritage. They're equal.
There are inspiring
tales of sacrifice here.
For instance the sage
sat meditating on the mountain.
He meditated beyond the
limits of physical endurance.
His mind was strong and
got stronger with penance.
Even though he had
left home for a long time..
After many,
many days a guest has come to my house.
My old companion, my ancient heritage.
Charan, you go to school
with the young master.
Does the teacher scold him?
Why? Why would he scold him?
Instead, everyone says
young master will stand first!
Definitely!
He'll become a judge, magistrate..
Or accountant or chief justice.
He'll surely be one of these.
Is studying very risky, father?
Why, why do you say that?
You said so yourself.
Judge, chief justice..
You'll see when you grow up.
He is certain to be one of those.
Judge! Magistrate! Chief justice!
Mom, today,
I got a poor subject to get his dues.
I say, child, I can't bear
to live in this empty house alone.
I know of a suitable girl.
Mom, as soon as I get a promotion, I'll..
Your bride will get what's in her destiny.
Certainly, certainly! You're right, mom.
Mom, what photos are these?
My future sister-in-law?
Oh, what a fine countenance,
I think you should fix the union!
You don't need to get carried away!
This month is auspicious,
after this it will be delayed.
No, we'll do it in this
month of Shrabon itself!
What about the arrangements?
- Just say tell me..
I'll arrange for
not one but three weddings!
You need to decide first whether
you want Indian musicians or a brass band.
Hari Sarkar in our village
is a talented musician.
Sister, sister!
You've the supplies for a week.
You won't see me for a week.
Why on earth?
I won't tell you beforehand.
It hampers good work.
Alright. Uncle Satish from had come here.
- Why?
Remember father had arranged
for your marriage while he was alive?
They're very eager to get
the girl married. Very well.
Then it will be in the month of Shrabon.
How can that be?
How can it take place in Shrabon?
It is a marriage,
you can't just go for it.
You need to make proper arrangements.
We'll do that some other time.
It'll get delayed.
- So be it.
Not possible?
- Why not?
How many times can I change the date?
When they say it'll be
in the month of Jyeshtha..
I say it'll be in Shrabon,
when Shrabon comes I delay it further.
They have visited three times already.
It must be in Shrabon.
You take a look at the supplies.
We'll talk about this later.
I'm going now.
How about lunch?
- No time!
What did they say?
They have committed elsewhere.
We can use good shehnai (musical
instrument) players, can't we?
Yes, of course.
It is just a matter of music,
only Charan will object!
That silly boy!
Mom, I'll be back soon. Charan,
the bride's family is coming today.
I'll be back right away!
They're coming in the evening.
- There is time for that.
No band indeed!
Hey you! Great instruments!
What do you mean?
Well, you do play instruments
so instead of calling..
You instrumentalists
I called you instruments.
Charan, what do you want?
- I want everything, everything.
That's not possible.
Say that to someone else.
We'll see once the wedding is done with.
I'm leaving.
Hey listen!
Listen, wait!
- What do you want to say?
If there is no band for master's wedding..
I'll see how you play
it at any other wedding!
No band indeed!
What racket is this?
- You said there would be no band.
Just wait and see on the wedding day,
if there is a band playing or not!
No band at master's wedding indeed!
Where is my spot? I need to sit here.
Priest, chant the verses well!
Ask him to read well.
Brother Charan, give me the key please!
I won't part with the key.
Tell me what you want.
Sweetmeat. Give this to me.
Raicharan is celebrating,
come let's see. Come.
Now you say,
either on Sunday or Wednesday?!
So what?
There is only one day in between!
It's fine.
See, we get married on Wednesday.
On Friday we've the nuptial night.
Then the celebrations!
You're mad!
What are you saying?
This is the wedding time already!
Won't you see the girl?
See, father has already
seen her and chosen her.
Why should I waste time in that?
Do you know when do
the poor see the bride?
Just after the wedding has been performed.
Since you're so insistent,
you may as well get it done with!
What say!
It must be done by Friday! Then it's fun!
- Totally mad!
There is no auspicious day after Monday.
I can't leave the
house with the new bride.
He said he'd come.
You can leave on Saturday. - Okay.
Can't the house be
guarded without Raicharan?
It's not just about guarding the house.
He also sorts the mail
and does so many other things.
Will Raicharan take care of everything?
I can do it too.
It's not that.
Right now we aren't staying here.
We do need him here.
Sister, give some bread!
- Here. - Quick, give it to me.
Here's the plate.
Hey Sonny, you've come alone.
Arna, where's your mom?
Here, have some bread.
Here, bread.
Go on, eat up! No need to feel shy.
Here, have this. It's piping hot! Take.
I'll get more. Here.
Here. It has gone cold.
It's hot.
Get us piping hot ones.
- Okay.
Why sit so far? Take off the veil.
Let's see how long you feel shy.
Come girls.
Why feel shy now? There is no one here.
You can say what you want.
Hey! You know they can't do
without me at all. - Who?
Those people, where I work.
- Oh.
Nice, this is nice.
The pillows are so soft.
Is it from your father?
Very good.
I have never slept in a bed like this.
I'm so tired after working
at the wedding all day.
Why are you staring at me?
I had to work at my own wedding.
Do you think I can enjoy
this soft bed for a few days? - Why?
What do you mean, why?
My employers are going
to Benaras for a few days.
I've to take over the
responsibility of the entire house.
Can I ignore all that and
simply keep lying on this soft bed?
Tell me, can I?
Oh no! That's not what Raicharan does.
You know, my employers
don't know of this marriage.
I didn't tell them. Do you know why?
If I tell them that I'm getting married
they won't leave on Saturday.
Their departure would be delayed.
I told you I've to take on
the entire responsibility from now.
Your master is here.
What? Master is here?
Get up. Get up! Master!
Is this for me?
Don't make a fuss!
How do I wear it?
Tell me, what did you
talk about last night?
What could we talk about? Nothing really.
Listen, the guard will
look after the house at night.
You come in early and
do all the cleaning, okay?
You stay here all day.
Don't worry about a thing!
Give me the key.
Don't delay,
take the goddess' name and start.
Come on, get in. Get in, get in.
Hail Durga!
Is the rice cooked?
Won't you go back?
He is not an employer but a God for me.
He has given me the entire
responsibility of the house.
Since I'm newly married, I get nights off!
Sit.
Oh dear! I haven't given the key!
- Meaning?
I had opened the store
room at my master's.
I forgot to lock it. I'll be back soon.
So what if you didn't lock it?
There are others.
What if something gets lost? No, no!
Why are you bothered only about them?
Why? Everything is fine here.
Aren't you my husband?
What do you think? Look at me. Let me go.
What are you?
Me? I'm Raicharan. Move, move quick!
Mom, Mom!
- What is it?
We must leave for Barasat right away.
Or else the train will get crowded.
We can't go today, dear.
- Why, mom?
I'll tell you. Come here.
Your well-wisher, mom.
Where are you going? Sit, sit, sit!
Read it to me nicely once more.
Read it again? Yes, read it again.
Go on, read it. Okay, listen.
By the grace of Lord Shiva we're all well.
I've left for our village
home with Anu and his wife.
Sister! Hail Lord Shiva!
Sister, here. I've good news!
What is it?
You know everything.
Look at me and guess what it could be.
Go on, guess.
Are your employers back from Benaras?
- No, no, you didn't get it.
Then, you got a raise.
- No!
Then what is it? - Master is coming.
See, ma'am wrote a letter.
No, you can't read it!
Ma'am has said to keep it a secret.
Understood? Don't tell anyone. I warn you.
Charan, you too are married
and have set up home.
You too will have children some day.
You can celebrate that in a big way.
Have you ever thought of these things?
What! No, I didn't. I will, I will.
Give.
Raicharan, Raicharan!
- Yes, sister-in-law!
Did you inform Bani?
- Yes I did.
I can't manage this boy. I wish he'd come.
Sister-in-law, give him to me.
You can't manage the household
work and you want to take him.
Let Bani come and do the household work.
Give him to me. Come dear, come.
O dear! O dear! O dear!
What are you doing?
- I'm playing! We're playing, aren't we?
Can you go now, please? I want to work.
Come let's go, daddy wants to work.
Okay sonny,
let's go and get some fresh air.
Come, daddy will work now.
Sister, come here quick!
- Why? What happened?
Don't give the baby to Raicharan.
He'll be ruined.
What?
- Yes.
Here you go, up in the air! Here..
Raicharan! What are you doing? He'll fall.
Nothing will happen, don't worry.
Look at that, who is this?
Who is this now? No crying.
I kept bouncing him and catching him!
Like this.
Sister-in-law was worried.
She thought he'd fall.
It's natural.
- Why?
Come, I'll bounce you up and hold you!
Sister, now the little
boy won't stay with anyone else.
He only wants to stay with me.
I'm very late today. Wait!
- What?
The other day,
your wife's brother had come.
She was very embarrassed
as you were in a torn shirt.
Get yourself a new shirt.
Who was embarrassed?
- Your wife.
Bah!
- Listen! - What is it?
Get a new one.
- Give me the money.
Here.
- Hurry, I'm getting late!
Wait a minute.
My wife sees me in a torn shirt
and is embarrassed, indeed!
Do you've a shirt?
- Yes.
Give me. Quick, give me.
Wow, this is a great shirt! How much?
Re. 1.25.
No, this is bigger.
Do you have a ball?
- Here you are.
How much? 25 paisa.
- 25 paisa?
Okay.
Here you go.
Don't you want the shirt?
Shirt?
- Yes. Okay, give.
How much did you say it was?
I told you, rupees 1.25.
Oh dear, I'm short of money.
How much is this?
- This is for 75 paisa.
75 paisa? Okay, give me this one.
Give me the meaner one.
Here's the money.
Oh, forget the folding!
Come, see this. Come here.
Come on, quick. Come, come.
Come, come on.
Come, come.
O dear! Sister-in-law, come here, quick!
What happened? - Look what Sonny did?
Come on, show us. Come on.
Come, come, come on quick.
Come, come, come on, quick. What's this?
See his deeds! See!
Saw that? Saw what he did?
What's the big deal? All children do that.
Not at all. No one has done it like this.
Your son will be a judge.
Take my word, he'll do great things.
Remember what I say.
Come, come, let's go out.
Okay sonny, tell me, who is this?
- Mom!
He is calling you mom.
And who is she?
- Aunt. Aunt!
And who am I?
- Charan.
Charan! He calls me Charan!
I'll go and tell master.
Daughter-in-law,
what time did Charan return last night?
Very late.
Is he still in bed?
He left at night.
He had to purchase an animal mask.
He was to take you to the Nobogram fair.
Did you tell him?
Where does he have
the time to listen to me?
He is so busy with Sonny there.
How Sonny calls his mom, mom.
Calls his aunt, 'aunt.'
And him, he calls him by name.
Charan? - Yes.
- Charan. - Yes.
I'm to get a transfer.
- Where?
To Munshiganj.
- Oh. What will you do?
Say something.
What do I say?
Wherever Sonny goes, I'll go too.
When do we leave?
In a few days.
Then there is a lot to be done.
Have to finish it all.
Want to go to the fair, sister!
- What?
Did you mention about
visiting village Nobo? - Yes.
The fair is today. - Who will take us?
- Why? The speaker.
Oh no, why are you holding my hand?
What if I get lost?
C'mon!
These are really nice.
These are beautiful!
The sari too is very pretty. Who chose it?
Listen, tonight you
must wear all these, okay?
Yummy! The vegetables are so tasty!
Who cooked it?
Your wife!
- Wonderful! Give me some more!
Go on, give some more.
That's enough.
Wife, we hardly ever talk!
How can we? Where is the time?
True, very true!
You haven't gone to your
master's house for the entire day!
Have you taken a holiday?
- Not a holiday.
You wanted to go to
the fair so I stayed back.
Master is getting
transferred to Munshiganj.
Will you go too?
See, sonny can't do without me.
So they said that..
You should go.
What did you say? That you'd go?
I didn't say that.
I hope you told them you won't go.
No, I didn't tell them that either.
I said I'd go.
Very good!
- What did you say?
Very good? I knew you'd say this.
Hey, where are Sonny's toys?
The ones we brought from the fair?
What happened?
Wife, why did you take
off the sari and jewellery..
We brought from the fair?
You gave those to me with so much love.
If I use them everyday they
will get spoilt. So, I kept them away.
Oh, you're keeping them away? Very good!
Listen, I'll go to the goldsmith
tomorrow and make you a necklace, okay?
Here are the toys.
Why did you do that?
It can take more stuff.
I have nothing more to keep.
Nothing more to keep?
- No.
Alright.
What are you doing?
Don't worry, I'll arrange it back for you.
I can't do it again.
I'll do it, don't fret.
I'll arrange it. I'll put this first.
Oh dear, this isn't shutting!
What happened?
This is enough. Where is my towel?
Oh, it's around my waist.
Sister, you'll receive a letter.
The train that moves west exactly
at 11 o'clock, that will be my train.
We change trains at
Ranaghat and go to Goland.
I'll proceed. Oh.
I'll see you!
Wife, why did you allow him to leave?
What is the point in stopping
one who was never mine?
You might fall!
- It's fine, don't worry!
Daughter-in-law! Come, time to eat.
See this. Father has sent this for our son.
- Really?
Yes.
We're back.
- What are these, sister-in-law?
Sonny's clothes.
- Oh!
Father-in-law sent these.
- For our Sonny? - Yes.
Wow, it shines so! A nice shiny necklace.
Sister-in-law, tomorrow sonny will wear
all this and go out with me for a stroll.
Looks like you won't go to court tomorrow.
Why won't I go to the court?
But do release me at 3.
3 o'clock?
- Yes.
Come.
Its 3 already.
- Go home.
Charan, a flower.
- What?
A flower over there.
See, how that bird flies!
Look over there, see how the bird flies.
- No, I want a flower. I want a flower.
Look! They're fishing!
- No, flower! See how they fish!
No, I want a flower.
You want a flower?
Fine, you sit here.
I'll get you a flower. Okay?
Don't go anywhere. Okay!
Sonny! Sonny!
Sonny!
Sonny.
Have you seen Sonny?
- No.
You haven't?
Sonny!
You haven't seen your son.
He looks so nice with the necklace on.
Sir!
- Who's there?
Sir, has your little boy returned home?
- No.
Your servant is weeping.
He can't find the boy.
What?
- We're ruined! Where is Sonny?
Come let's see.
Sonny!
Don't be impatient!
No, I've a feeling something is wrong.
Nothing is wrong.
- Something is surely wrong.
Sonny!
- Sonny!
Sonny! Sonny!
Sonny!
- Sonny! Sonny, Sonny!
Sonny.
Raicharan, where is my son? My son?
Why are you silent, tell me?!
Where is my son?
Raicharan, where is my son?
Say something.
I don't know, sister-in-law.
What do you mean, you don't know?
You took him along with you for a stroll.
Sister-in-law, I don't know!
I don't know, I don't know!
You don't know! Why did you take him?
Get my son back, get him back.
Give me my son back!
What are you saying..
- Give me my son back!
What are you saying, sister-in-law?
My son, my..
You're wrong.
You're wrong to suspect Raicharan.
No, I'm not wrong.
Look, think over it carefully.
Why would Raicharan commit
a heinous crime like this?
Why not? Wasn't Sonny
wearing gold ornaments?
No, no. Don't talk like this!
Had he done it,
why would he leave the pram back?
That's a ruse. Throw him out! Fire him!
Very well, I'll do it.
Raicharan, Raicharan.
Raicha..
Who's that? Raicharan, isn't it?
Charan, what happened?
Sonny is no more, he is no more.
- What happened?
Do you know what sister-in-law said?
Can we get the child back
whatever amount of money we give?
That is the problem.
I can bear everything.
Only if I could get him back.
Wife, is he still alive?
- May be he is.
What did you say?
So you're saying he didn't drown?
- I don't think so.
May you be right! May you be right!
Wife, it seems you said the child is alive.
- Yes.
What a problem you've created! He left.
- Where?
Back to the same place.
He won't return till he finds him.
Excuse me! This way.
You're back! Don't you recognise me?
Did you go to that house? How would you?
I work there now.
Where have you kept Sonny?
Sonny, Sonny! Where is Sonny?
He is alive, he is there.
He is there. He is alive.
Somebody has hidden him.
Jodu said, he saw Raicharan by the river.
He seems to have gone mad.
He says Sonny is alive.
Oh, so he is on that track.
I'm sure, he has hidden Sonny somewhere.
He will sell off those ornaments.
Listen to me carefully.
Raicharan has likely gone mad.
He says Sonny is alive.
Wife, I believe you're going
to look for him? - Yes.
I think he might take up the job again.
But he doesn't belong there.
Why not? They didn't fire him.
They only accused him.
I want to see him once.
He has told us,
he won't return unless he finds Sonny.
I want to go and see him for myself.
He won't come.
You're a lady.
You'll travel to an unknown place?
So much inconvenience.
- Never mind.
I had asked you to file
a complaint with the police.
Did you do it?
Against whom?
- Raicharan.
He is roaming around like a madman.
You don't know it for a fact.
We've come from Kaldonga.
She is Raicharan's wife.
I'm her companion.
Ma'am, you can keep him.
I only want to see him once.
Oh. Husband and wife
have planned it all, is it?
I hear he is hiding somewhere here.
He hasn't come here even once to meet us.
And now you've come to say
that you don't know where he is.
Is your jewellery made from his ornaments?
Ma'am, what are you saying?
Actually, I should hand
you over to the police too.
Have you gone mad?
Ma'am, I think mad Raicharan has drowned.
- What?
Yes. A dead body was flowing in the river.
From the description I heard,
it must be him.
Have you seen it with your own eyes?
No. Before I could even reach,
they burnt the body.
It was a young man, quite good looking.
Seems like him.
No. It's not him. It's someone else.
Get water, quickly.
Does the river take in everything?
Says who? I just found
a little shoe in the net.
Some little boy must have drowned.
Will you show me the shoe?
Here it is.
Who's there? Daughter-in-law!
What is the matter, dear?
Sister, why didn't I
listen to you and stay back?
Why did I go? Why?
It was a crowded place.
There they found the body..
Of someone who drowned.
It seems that he resembled Raicharan.
Drowned? No, it's impossible. Never!
She became unconscious
and the doctor was called.
He examined and said she is expecting.
Hope that is true.
Where are you going, daughter-in-law?
Sister, what can I do?
I can't live in this house any more.
Let me go. Let me go.
You've come back! You're back!
You were wrong, wife.
You're back.
You were wrong.
Charan, listen to me carefully.
Daughter-in-law is expecting.
No, no! I won't let
anyone take Sonny's place.
Don't be silly!
Quiet! Don't make her suffer any more.
No, sister, no!
The child to come is my enemy.
It's my enemy.
Raicharan! Raicharan! Come home, quick!
Don't be silly! Come home!
I've sent for him.
He'll be here any moment.
Charan!
- I heard.
I heard that doomed cry!
No! It was a difficult delivery.
She isn't too well. Come and see her.
Come, don't delay. Come.
Where are you going?
Listen.
Go, sit by your wife.
Come close to me.
I won't bother you anymore.
I'm going.
But, but, take care of Sonny.
Where are you? Where are you?
Daughter-in-law!
- I'm here, here I am!
He is crying. What's that sound?
- Who will look after him?
I've to do the housework too.
His father is here.
Raicharan? It's my bad luck.
He calls him his enemy.
Says he is the one
who drove his Sonny away.
Wait, wait, Phaelna! You'll fall!
Sister, what have you
named your dear nephew?
Phaelna.
Phaelna?
So what? Have you ever
looked at him properly?
Have you even carried him in your arms?
All you can do is call him your 'enemy.'
I feel scared.
If I leave him alone and go somewhere..
You might even kill him.
What a thing to say!
Who?
Who called out?
- Your son.
What did he say?
He called me aunt.
Aunt?
- Yes.
Make him say it one more time.
Phaelna, who am I?
- Aunt.
Sister, this boy will be a judge.
Sure, he will!
How come?
Does everyone have to be
illiterate like you all their lives?
No, it's not that.
Look at him. Look at him.
Look at him. He looks just like Sonny.
That may be so. You loved him a lot.
May be he came back to you.
They do come back, isn't it, sister?
- Of course!
He too used to say 'aunt' just like this.
Even.. sister,
don't talk ill about master's wife.
She was right, I did steal her son.
I stole him.
Very well.
Now how about bringing him up well?
Yes, I will. Certainly.
I'll bring him up like
a proper human being.
Sister, it's okay if he calls you aunt.
But let him not address me as 'daddy.'
What should he call you?
- Let him call me Charan.
Tell him, tell him to call me Charan.
Very well. I'll instruct him likewise.
It's just as well wife died.
Were she alive, she'd teach..
Him to call her 'mom.'
But why is Sonny in this state?
No, he won't be in this state.
- What?
I'll be back right away.
Where are you going?
- Did you say something?
To get nice things for Sonny.
Finally, he got drawn to his son?
Didn't I say no one can ignore a child?
He is drawn to him, do you know why?
Suddenly he feels that
his son is his lost Sonny.
How nice he looks!
Just like my sonny. Wait.
Where are you going again?
- I'll be back.
Hey goldsmith!
Can you melt these and make some..
Small bracelets, rings and necklace?
How nice he looks!
Let me see.
Where did you get the gold?
Wife's ornaments. I sold them.
Wonderful!
Sonny!
Are these for me?
Give me, give those to me. Charan!
Listen, don't play with them.
Whom do I play with?
- With me.
Wow! You play well!
Here, hit this. Very good, good shot!
Charan, Charan!
- Yes. Come here. What?
You've decided to make him a judge.
Yes, I must.
Will he become one
only by playing all day?
What are you trying to tell me?
Doesn't he need to study?
Yes sister, you're right.
We've to put him in a school.
You must.
Two times two is four.
Master, you dropped that.
- Hey!
1 quarter is one fourth.
2 quarters is one half.
3 quarters is three fourth.
4 quarters is one whole.
5 quarters is one and one fourth.
- 5 quarters is one and one fourth.
6 quarters is one and half.
- 6 quarters is one and half.
7 quarters is one and three fourths.
No sister,
sonny can't study in that school.
I spoke to Palli Ghosh.
He'll come home and teach him.
However, we've to pay him a little more.
That's for sure.
But see, only our crops are not enough.
You've to look for some work.
Haven't I considered that?
You've to do all the work.
Like buying goods.
Cleaning the store twice a day.
You'll get one meal a day.
Yes, sir.
You see that store room?
You can stay there.
How many family members are you?
We're three members.
That one and the two of us.
This is our land,
why are you measuring it?
It used to be yours, no more.
- Meaning?
Ask your brother.
Hey! Go up to that corner.
Why are you quiet? Read on.
K.
- K.
Kh.
- Kh.
G - G.
- How much Khokababu has studied?
Maybe one page.
- When? - After he finishes the page.
I don't understand all that.
Count it and tell me.
It's done. Look at this.
1, 2, 3, 4, 5. 5 pages.
- What?
He learnt all of it?
- Yes. He is a fine lad.
I told you he'll be a judge.
But of course. What have you
done with the land next to the pond?
Sister, now that Sonny
has come to our house..
I won't let him want for anything.
I sold that land.
Does anyone sell off land?
Sister! Sister!
What happened?
What is it, Raicharan?
You seem a bit preoccupied today.
Yes. Sister is quite sick.
- Oh.
How long should I keep waiting?
Quick, give me some roasted lentils.
Raicharan! Raicharan!
- Yes.
Come home, quick! Your sister!
Quick, come! What happened?
Who's there?
- It's me.
I'm Charan.
The boy, we've to bring up the boy well.
We will, sister, we will.
Listen.
Listen, you do one more..
Here, its rupees 18.75.
Hey, you're going to play football.
Why the make up?
I can't just go anyhow.
How much longer?
- I'm done.
Come.
Hey, wait!
What do you have?
Whatever is here is all for you.
What is this?
- This? It's mango candy.
Here.
Hey! I didn't get this month's rent.
- I'll give you.
Give it, when?
If you don't pay me the rent in a week..
You'll have to vacate the house.
Don't forget!
Take, this is your pocket money.
I want a woolen outfit.
Roasted peas!
Give me 1 paisa worth of those.
- Here you go.
Roasted dry peas!
- Give me some, brother.
Take the money.
Come on, Sonny.
Let me have a look.
I'll go now.
- Okay.
Oh, I forgot.
You haven't paid 3 months' fees.
Yes, I know.
I can't face anyone. Please pay it soon.
If I'm not going to live
here where's the harm selling it?
Very good. In that case.
- Here you're Raicharan!
I heard you're back so I came to see you.
- Come.
Can you recognise him?
Your son used to play
with him at one time.
My son, Noren.
I hear you've kept your son
at a boarding school in Kolkata.
Yes. Sister is no more
so I had to keep him.
Good. I'm taking him to Kolkata too.
I'll put him in a boarding school.
It's good. But quite expensive.
My employer is giving the money.
That is why he can stay in a boarding.
I wanted to tell you something.
There is something called
divine intervention, you know.
What do you mean?
Your master's wife accused
you of being a thief and fired you.
Now they've returned
to their Barasat home.
How did you know of it?
My relative, Bhola, works at their place.
Your master's mom wants
to get him married again.
Get him married again?
Yes. What else can they do?
They don't have any kids.
They need to continue their bloodline.
I'll leave now. I'm in a rush.
Come on, let's go.
We need to arrange things.
Master will get married again?
Continue the bloodline.
Continue the bloodline..
Hey, fix the price!
200, 225! Where are you going?
No. Mom has spoken about your marriage.
No, mom hasn't said that.
Mom was talking about
continuing the bloodline.
Why would she talk only about that?
She said when nothing has resulted despite
taking treatment for 6 months, then..
Sir.
- Who?
I'm, I'm Raicharan.
What do you want?
I came to pay you my obeisance.
To bow to you.
Obeisance? You've come back?
You aren't satisfied even after..
Taking everything away from me?
- What are you doing?
What am I doing?
Today, I'm almost bereft of everything.
I stand to lose everything that I have,
only because of him.
He is the one..
- Sister-in-law! You were right.
The river didn't steal your son,
I did. I did.
Raicharan!
- Yes. Where is he? Where is he?
Do you want to see him?
- Yes.
No, never! Never!
That boy from your village says so.
Noren! There he is!
No, never, never!
Are you ashamed to
call your father a father?
No, no, Charan is not my father.
Charan is not my father. There he is!
What is this? What is this Noren saying?
- What?
He says you're my father.
You told me you're not my father.
Yes. Whatever I told you is true.
It's all true.
Sonny, I'm not your father.
I'm not your father.
My Sonny, my Sonny!
- Here you are, ma'am.
Sonny! My sonny! My Sonny!
My Sonny!
Let me see, let me see!
My Sonny! My Sonny!
Touch her feet, she is your mom.
My Sonny!
Halt!
Master, do you remember?
So much has happened in this room!
Remember in childhood,
you used to sit there and study.
I used to sit here and doze.
Then you grew up and got married.
Raicharan, you can't stay here.
Where will I stay?
What are you saying?
He has admitted to his crime,
he has even returned Sonny to us.
We can't punish him now.
I believed that he was
never guilty of that crime.
Now that he has admitted to his misdeed..
He must face the consequences.
Don't say that.
It might affect my
Sonny in a negative manner.
Please forgive him.
I can't forgive him for what he has done.
I didn't do it, I didn't!
I didn't do it, ma'am, I didn't.
I didn't do it, I didn't do it!
It was fate.
One who can betray you so
badly doesn't deserve to be trusted.
But master, it is not me.
- Then who was it?
My waywardness.
Look, I can't keep you.
Keeping you here is a sin!
Sin? Keeping me is a sin?
Father, forgive him.
Ask him to leave the house.
But absolve him of his crime.
I have committed a misdeed.
I deserve punishment.
No, no. No! Raicharan! Raicharan.
- Stop.
Don't call him back. Let him go.
There is a money order
for Raicharan Dutta.
Hey Raicharan Dutta!
Sonny was saying you sent Raicharan money.
Yes. From now on,
Raicharan will get double..
The amount of money he
used to get when he worked here.
I've money ordered the amount.
No, no! Money is not everything.
Get him back any way you can.
What if some misfortune befalls my Sonny?
Master, master, the peon is calling you.
Sir, there is no one at Raicharan's
address, where you had sent money.
Raicharan is not there?
No sir. The money has come back.
'What work do you know?'
'I can run on one foot,
I can play kabaddi.'
'I've such good aim I can
hit what I want with my slingshot.'
'I can climb this tree. Can you?'
'No.'
- 'Look at this.'
'Take.'
- 'No.'
'Your master's orders. Drink up!'
- 'Okay.'
Daddy, daddy!